# Developer guide
This document provide an overview of zedlist project to help developers who wish to contribute to to the zedlist project understand the project design and other important stuffs.

## Set up development environment
This section assumes
* You have golang installed
* You have postgresql database running somewhere.

Please see the assumptions above, and make sure you you have fulfilled them to proceed.

There are different workflows for contributing to golang project. The way the go toolchain works makes it abit difficult for golang noobs to grok what they should do to contribute to any golang project.

The following is a simple workflow which I recomend If you are not well versed in golang based source contributionn.

### Step 1 Fork the project.
This should be easy right? jut click the fork button. Something to note here, forking will change the the path(or route to the project),

Lets say your github account name is foo. Forking zedlist will result in the project pointing at `foo/zedlist`
At the new forked repository, there is a a place which has the project URL. Keep this i mind, we are going to need this URL in the steps to come.

### Step 2 Get the original project
go get the project

	go get -v github.com/zedio/zedlist/...

### Step 3 Setup remotes.

cd into the project you just installed. NOTE for all the steps that follow I assume you are in the project root(i.e you never left the console after running this command)

	cd $GOPATH/github.com/zedio/zedlist

To make life easier for the folloing steps its wise to do something about expoerting the database connection URL on your shell. There are many ways , I hope you can research and choose whatever you like. The easiest though is to export in the current shell like this.

	export CONFIG_DBCONN=YOUR_DATABASE_CONNECTION_URL


Add remote named fork( you can call it a knife whatever you like). Now you need the URL from Step 1, I will refer to it by URL_TO_MY_FORK, please replace this with the actual URL

	git remote add fork URL_TO_MY_FORK
	
Now pull anything from your fork like so

	git pull fork master

### Step 4 Install extra dependecies( for development)
Run this command   

	make deps

### Step 5 Create a branch of what you wanna hack on.
For instance you want to fix resmue, lets create a fix-resume branch

	git checkout -b fix-resume

Now hack on your branch, when you are done. Run make to make sure you havent broken anything

	make

If all went well, a directory `bin` will be created in the project root with the zedlist binary in it.If you want to run the application , you can run the following command.

	./bin/zedlist

If everything is ok, commit your changes and push to the fork remote like this

	git commit -s -a -m "My awesome fix"
	
	git push fork fix-resume

Then use Github to create your pull request.

### Step 6
There is no step 6. Ah! If you havent clicked the star button of this project its time you should do so.



## Overview
Zedlist is a modular application. The following is the directory structure of the project.

```
.
├── assets
├── bindata
├── cmd
├── middlewares
├── migration
├── models
├── modules
├── routes
├── scripts
├── static
├── templates
├── CONTRIBUTING.md
├── DEVELOPER.md
├── dirs
├── INSTALL.md
├── LICENCE
├── Makefile
├── README.md
├── zedlist
└── zedlist.go

```

 Directory                            |Deatils
------------------------|------------------------------
assets                  | Sass stylesheets for zedlist. Zedlist uses a combination of bourbon, neat and bitters for stylesheets. All the sass files are included.
bindata                 | This directory is auto generated by fo-bindata tool. PLEASE DO NOT TOUCH THIS DIRECTORY.   Zedlist relies on embedded data for its view. In this directory there are two directories, static which contains everything under the static directory(at the root of the project) and templates which contains everything under the template directory(at the rootof zedlist project)
cmd                     | This is where the main zedlist application is. Zedlist uses codegansta/cli for creating the commandline app. Note that, only constructs( definitions of the app are found help), the actual binary entry point( main function) is found in the file zedlist.go(at the root of zedlist project)

__W.I.P__
